Hi, Welcome to Design
Live Activities for Apple Watch.
My name is Ed.
And my name is Taylor,
and we’re designers
on the Apple Design Team.
Together, we’ll go through
everything you need to know
to design great
Live Activities for Apple Watch.
What we’ll talk about today,
builds upon many of the changes
we introduced in watchOS 10
which was the most significant change
to Apple Watch since its introduction.
In addition to an entirely new user
interface focused on glanceability,
clarity, and consistency, we introduced
the Smart Stack,
a new way to see timely, relevant
widgets right over your Watch Face.
And it’s in this Smart Stack,
where Live Activities come to Apple Watch.
So in this session, we’re going to cover:
the improvements we’re bringing
to Smart Stack,
which is the primary surface
for Live Activities;
all the different ways you can interact
with Live Activities on Apple Watch;
and finally, visual guidelines for
how to craft a great Live Activity.
Let’s start with Smart Stack.
In watchOS 11, we’re introducing
Suggested Widgets.
These are widgets
that the system intelligently adds
or removes based on what’s relevant
in the moment.
For example,
this new precipitation widget shows up
15 minutes before it rains
and then disappears once
the skies clear up.
Or, if there’s music playing around you,
the Shazam widget can help you
quickly identify what song is playing.
And it too, disappears once
the music stops.
Widgets in watchOS 11
can also be interactive,
enabling you to do things like tapping
this Home widget
to turn a nearby light on.
But the biggest change to the Smart Stack
is the addition of Live Activities.
Live Activities have changed
the way we interact
with notifications on iPhone.
Instead of receiving
multiple notifications
when you’re tracking
something like a ride to the airport,
or your food delivery order,
you see a single,
dynamically updating Live Activity -
right on your Lock Screen.
On iPhone 15 and 15 Pro,
Live Activities also appear
in the Dynamic Island
allowing you to keep track
of Live Activities
while you use your iPhone.
In watchOS 11, when a Live Activity
begins on your iPhone,
it automatically shows up
at the top of the Smart Stack
on Apple Watch.
So you can track its progress
just by raising your wrist.
And, because the Smart Stack
can now open automatically,
we’ve updated the corner clock to match
the design of your watch face.
To tell you more about how people interact
with Live Activities on Apple Watch,
here’s Taylor.
Thanks, Ed.
We’re really excited about
how Live Activities in watchOS 11
bring even more timely,
relevant information to your wrist.
Because of the Apple Watch’s
unique form factor
and lightweight interaction model,
we’ve designed Live Activities to
be experienced in a number of ways
that are distinctive from iPhone.
On Apple Watch,
when a Live Activity starts,
the Smart Stack is automatically presented
and displays a widget
for that Live Activity.
This allows you to see
the status of a Live Activity
just by raising your wrist,
without having to first rotate
the Digital Crown.
New, in watchOS 11,
the Smart Stack will remain visible
when you put your wrist down
so you can continue
to glance at both the time
and the Live Activity you are tracking.
When you tap on the Live Activity widget,
you’re taken into the app.
If you don’t have an Apple Watch app,
it will expand into a system
provided fullscreen view
that contains a convenient button
to open your app on iPhone
so people can transition
to a richer experience there.
But what if someone is in another app
when your Live Activity starts?
To ensure people never miss
an update from your Live Activity
we’ve created the compact view
When you’re interacting with an app
and a Live Activity receives an update,
like the status of
your food delivery changing,
a smaller, more compact
version of the Live Activity
appears at the bottom of the display.
If you pull up on this compact view,
it enlarges into the full widget.
And if you tap on either,
you will be taken to the app
or fullscreen view.
Like notifications,
we’ve designed Live Activities
to demand the right amount of attention
based on how you are
interacting with Apple Watch.
If your wrist is down
and you are on your watch face,
you can simply raise your wrist
to see a full-sized representation
of the Live Activity you’re tracking.
If you’re actively using Apple Watch,
this compact view is less interruptive
and allows you to see
that an update occurred
without disrupting
the task you are performing.
To tell you more about
the visual design of Live Activities,
here’s Ed.
Live Activities on Apple Watch
are meant to be highly glanceable,
providing just the information you need,
and nothing more.
On iPhone, Live Activities occupy
the dynamic island,
which can expand
when there is an alerting update,
and then contract
back to its default state.
And it’s in this default state
where only the most critical information
remains visible.
But, on Apple Watch,a smaller screen
demands a more focused approach,
meaning: only the most critical information
should be shown at any given time.
In watchOS 11, we’ve made
this effortless for developers,
by automatically generating
Live Activities on Apple Watch
by forwarding
and re-compositing assets from
the Dynamic Island’s Compact state.
However, the best experiences
for Live Activities on Apple Watch
are those that adopt
the Apple Watch size class.
This enables developers to provide
more helpful information
as well as a more engaging design.
As you can see, there is
a significant difference in quality
and experience between these two options.
A common question
when designing Live Activities on Watch
is how much information
is too much or too little?
To answer that, we recommend
showing only what is necessary
to communicate significant states
in the live activity.
These are states that help
people understand progress,
like how long until
your flight touches down.
Or states that might require action,
like getting to the curb
because your Uber is arriving.
Or these could just be states that
someone might really care about,
such as a change in the score of a game.
Another common question
is whether or not controls
make sense for your live activity.
Controls are best for live activities
that need to be played, paused or resumed.
For example, a workout, a timer,
or a voice memo.
Whatever the control is,
we strongly recommend
sticking with just one,
as multiple controls are
challenged by the small space,
which also need to
provide enough information
to communicate state.
Speaking of space constraints.
To help you make the most of the space
we recommend using
one of our existing design layouts
which can accommodate
different levels of information density
and graphical elements.
You can learn more about these layouts
in last year's session:
"Design Widgets for the Smart Stack
on Apple Watch."
If, however, you want to do
something completely custom,
we recommend using standard
margins and text styles to ensure
that your Live Activity both fits in with
the visual language of the Smart Stack
and remains legible at a glance.
The best way to learn about
Live Activities is to build one yourself.
For that, we have a
wonderful session called,
"Bring your Live Activity to Apple Watch."
In that session, our engineering colleague
Anne will walk you through exactly
how to customize your
Live Activity for Apple Watch.
It’s also worth mentioning
that Live Activities on Apple Watch
is an experience that has
only been made possible
by building on the foundation
of other key features.
These include the Smart Stack,
the Dynamic Island,
and, of course, Live Activities on iPhone.
If you’re interested in
getting a fuller understanding of
each of these experiences,
we recommend checking out a few
of these sessions from previous years.
We think Live Activities make Apple
Watch even more contextually intelligent,
so that a glance is all you need
to get the right information,
at the right time.
Thanks for joining us today,
we are so excited to see your
Live Activities in the Smart Stack.